all right folks welcome back I do hope
everyone's doing
well so we're looking at episode 12 this
lesson and lecture is going to be on the
topic of Market structure for precision
technicians now admittedly going into
this this is an advanced price action
Theory you're going to have a lot of
questions it's going to cause all kinds
of anxiety for those that just feel like
you have to learn it the first time you
watch a video trust me you will not and
you cannot learn this in one video okay
this is actually going to be a lesson
even my paid mentorship group has yet to
see okay so I want to give you something
that's fresh something that is deep that
will allow you to go into your charts
and start studying a little bit
more
well deeper than the normal higher high
higher low idea that is made up of the
retail view of Market
structure all right here is the
NASDAQ March contract for 2022 I already
hear some of you already hissing and
moaning the Forex traders in my group
when are you ever going to talk about
EUR
dollar well let me remind you what I'm
teaching Works in Forex okay it works in
stocks it works in bonds
it's up to you to decide what asset
class you're going to work with Okay so
I'm teaching price this is the asset
class that's moving around nicely so I'm
using it as a medium okay you could just
as easily go into a Aussie dollar you
know or pound Yen chart and you'll see
these things happening as well okay
trust me we'll get into Forex again okay
I haven't abandoned forx I just want to
mine this vein that's available in
volatility right now with the index
fatures all right so obviously we can
see with the benefit of hindsight that
the things we were looking for in price
action has come to fruition we were
looking for the Run below these lows in
here we got that we were looking for a
run and rebalance back up into this fair
value Gap it did so handsomely broke
lower overnight with all
the wartime things that are going around
the
globe and you know what I'm referring to
uh that caused a little bit of
excitement on the downside and then
we're back Above This short-term low I
am not convinced at this point that we
have made a low so that way we can put
that the bed right now I'm not in the
business of picking tops and bottoms so
if you feel like you're going to go out
there and do that just letting you know
that I teach my PID group not to do that
and I don't go out there actively trying
to do that either but we're going to go
into a deep dive of Market structure
inside this area now before I do this I
want you to understand this part this is
the part that seems boring this is the
part that gets the most complaints from
those individuals that will never ever
do well or succeed in this because they
want five minute Trainers for something
that's extremely Technical and you just
can't strip it down to very
easy ideas Okay so it's going to take a
little bit of study thinking and
homework of you going through old price
data and you'll start seeing these
things but I promise you this video will
cause a light bulb movement for you and
you'll start to see things that are in
the charts all the time but you are not
aware of it and it'll also allow you to
go back into Old moves and see that this
is in fact very true and you can use it
to confirm or negate a price move I get
a lot of questions through trading view
people posting hey you can you answer
this for me can you answer that for me I
don't make it a business of doing that
because I don't have a lot of time for
it but I use those questions in these
talking points in my lectures not only
in this mentorship but in my private
group
so the questions I get a lot is how do I
know if I'm going to sell above an old
high how do I know it's not going to
keep going higher well that's the
underlying Market structure and the
trust in the factors that I'm going to
kind of like teach you
tonight me teaching it to you is not
going to transpose my trust that has to
be developed in your learning curve it's
going to take time how long is it going
to take I don't know all of you are
going to do it differently but you're
going to arrive right on time exactly
when you should that's when you're going
to get it all okay and it's a matter of
how much time and effort you put into
studying
it because these
candlesticks you can make them say
anything you want you beat on them and
they'll submit to
anything but you want to know what
they're likely to be hinting at and I'm
going to give you those Clues tonight
but in here we're going to take a deep
dive into that price action right
there all right so we are looking inside
that fair value gap on the daily chart
this was the high end of that fair value
Gap and this was the low end of that
fair value Gap the time frame on this
chart as you can see here 1 hour and
I've
outlined Market structure in the idea of
long-term High long-term low short-term
High short-term low and in between those
two swing points there's an intermediate
term High and an intermediate term
low when we look at
Price we're not looking for just the
simple higher high higher low therefore
it's a bullish Market or uptrend that
that's not what I'm looking at I'm
looking at does the market have a reason
to go up for buy side liquidity or buy
stopped or is it likely go up to
rebalance an imbalance which is like a
fair value G
or is it likely to go lower to sweep out
short-term
lows for sell side liquidity or sell
stops or is it likely to go down to
rebalance and old inbalance or a fair
value G below market
price that
is the number one question that I have
before I sit down in front of my charts
that's what I'm looking for what is the
current market narrative
what is it likely to be doing right now
I don't care about patterns in price
action I don't care about anything
harmonic I'm not looking for any kind of
Elliot waves I'm not looking for any
kind of ratio idea I'm not looking for
anything that you can attribute to a
retail
mindset nothing except for those two
questions is it likely to go up for
stops or go down for stops or is it
going to go higher to rebalance or lower
to rebalance
balance now how do I
arrive at that idea is is it going to go
higher is it going to go lower because
that kind of like leans on that question
I told you many times if there's one
question I get asked the most it's teach
me bias in other words you want to know
where's the market going next and that's
good that's the next draw on liquidity
but the daily range will not always
submit to that bullish or bearish right
from the opening go higher or rate from
the opening go lower sometimes you'll
have consolidation Inay and you may have
been trying to take a trade that was
based on an idea that you came to that
would be bullish and maybe it did give
you an opportunity to be in a trade that
was profitable for a period of time but
you held on to it thinking the daily
range was going to keep on going higher
and it turned on you these ideas I'm
going to teach you in this lecture here
will help you identify the likelihood
that your idea is probably been proven
inaccurate but you have to be receptive
to the clues that price has given you
that's the number one reason why I
abandoned indicators and if you have
anything on the
charts that cover up
candles or Draw your attention to
something that you're putting on the
chart and I call that you know
factiously lipstick okay that's what
this chart is showing here it's this
lipstick it's me communicating how I am
internalizing this price structure this
fractal and price I'm looking at it with
this idea now I'm looking at it in a
matter of seconds I come to this
conclusion I'm looking at the highs and
I'm looking at the relationships between
each swing High each swing low and I'm
coming to a conclusion studying one
swing at a time and I'm going to come up
with the idea that it's likely to go
lower because that daily chart we I
called it in front of all of you I
outlined it told you where it was going
to go so that way we understand one
I'm teaching something that I already
proved before the fact so it's not like
me coming back to this area here because
if you haven't watched the videos proba
let say you just found this YouTube
channel and you're watching this one it
sounds like the typical guy that comes
on YouTube and says here's something
that happened you know and I can sound
and look and appear smart because it's
already happened and I have no real risk
in being
wrong I told you it was going to go
lower from here and it did now I'm going
to take you inside that price section
and outline what it is that I look for
what it is that I looked for at the time
and how I felt confident it was going to
go lower
okay so right away we know that price
has traded up to the high end of that
fair value Gap and again this level here
is that daily chart let me go back up
one
chart that's this level here okay it's
on this candle that low and the low of
the fair value G is this candle's
High dropping down in to the hourly
chart that's the high end of the fair
value Gap this is the low end of the
fair value Gap again on an hourly chart
so that way we have our
bearings so when the market traded up
into and just above that fair value Gap
high this red level here once it started
to break down and go lower it traded
back down
into this candlestick's
high so we're trading back inside this
range and we're range
bound since I am expecting the daily
chart to be the
parent of this price structure all minor
lower time frame swings are going to be
subordinate to it and what does that
mean this now is a long-term High I do
not expect this High to be broken to the
upside should it be broken to the upside
that means that my daily analysis
expecting this level here to hold price
and to be a factor in the algorithm
repricing and going lower at a later
time if it goes above that then I'm
probably wrong in my analysis so
therefore I demand more information by
studying more price action and sitting
on my hands or if I have a trade on it
means that I have to admit that I'm
wrong and the stop out that may occur is
just me managing risk it's a losing
transaction does not mean your model is
flawed it does not mean that you're a
failed Trader it just means that that
transaction was not a profitable one and
it's just a cost of doing
business but as long as price remains
below this High my idea is this is a
long-term High because it's framed on
what a higher time frame resistance
level if we're want to talk in terms of
retail idea so that way we can
understand something in a simplistic
manner but we'll build on the ideas that
will help move you away from simple
support resistance ideas
so this long-term high should remain
intact and no's price should not go
higher than that we trade down to the
discount level of the low end of that
fair value Gap and it starts to find
support rallies back up trades near the
high but does not take that out very
important once it starts to break down
and consolidate in
here retail
ideas will
see a lot of trust in the idea that's
potentially a bull
flag I love seeing those patterns
because I like to fade them so that's a
false bull flag and when we see price
break down like
this and then rally back up every single
time this is important this is the part
where you start writing down these
details every single
time price rebalances an imbalance like
we have this candle's low this candle's
High we have that one single candle
passing down like that once that
rebalances by going up here that swing
high from this high this high and this
High that's a swing high right there I
immediately label that in my mind not on
my chart because I don't want anything
distracting me if I have these things
written on my chart at the
time it's going to be a distraction to
me but the way I'm internalizing it and
you'll see what I mean as I go through
this lecture
every
rebalance of an old imbalance That Swing
that's created at that moment I
immediately label that in my mind as an
intermediate term high or in this case
as we came back down and filled in this
by dropping down here that's an
intermediate term
low what does that mean what's the
significance of that typically what
you'll
see
is intermediate term low has a higher
short-term low
to the right of it and a higher
short-term low to the left of
it this immed term low forms by
rebalancing but it has a higher
short-term High here but then the market
trades over here off of this short-term
low it rallies up but it
fails it fails in
here we're going to anticipate that
failure whereas if you're looking at
this low high higher
low
failed higher
high higher
low so what's forming here a
pennant or a triangle pattern right how
do you know which side's going to break
out that was one of the questions I had
all the time as a developing student
back in the 90s 1992 1993 I was buying
every book and get my hands on and I got
the book
the John
Murphy technical analysis of the
financial markets book which is the
retail Traders Bible okay that book is
so useful in terms of just reading it
and knowing what not to do because
that's what the 90% crowd follows when
they look at Price action still to this
day because it's always regurgitated in
some way shape or form someone's
teaching that same idea uptrending trend
lines which are so subjective how do you
know what swing lad attach for a trend
line there's lots of Swing lows in here
how do you draw it it's
all subjective so you have to have a way
to reduce it down
to I hate to say it like this but it
really is no better way of saying it but
you have to break it down into a science
we don't do technical analysis we do
technical science okay you have to be
able to relate to certain things way out
and measure what these factors are
within price action which is not based
on hypothetical guesswork or some kind
of a harmonic animal pattern which to me
makes no sense you have to look at the
relationship to price action and the
relationship of how it
behaves what is it indicating what is it
showing the market has
traded higher then
Consolidated we failed to go above this
important high back here that's a
long-term High then we have an interterm
High
why why is this a intermediate term High
because we have a short-term High here
and a short-term High here so between
two short-term highs the highest high
between those that's an inter term
high but the main takeaway for your
notes so far is anytime a imbalance like
this big candle up is rebalanced that
becomes an intermediate term low just as
well on the opposite end this down move
here that's a fair value Gap soon as it
rebalances there that's what I classify
as an iment term high now here's where
we take a huge step
forward classically
defined by Larry Williams and you can
see where I made a departure from his
works okay it was very influential in
the beginning of my development and it
was a point of argument internally with
me when I was watching him teach it on
his VHS course the future millionaires
confidential trading
course that idea of his approach to
Market
structure he teaches a little bit of it
in this book okay so it's long-term
secrets to short-term trading by Larry
Williams um there's not a lot of books I
have over 2,000 some books and I can
tell you literally there's a handful of
books out of all my collection that are
useful and I can't bring myself to throw
them away way because number one I paid
a lot of money for him and it's just
Nostalgia you know me chasing all that
stuff in books and it's just always the
same stuff that never really works the
ideas that he teaches in this book here
they were taught in a early work by him
in regards to Market structure how to
internalize price structure how to look
at Price not just from a higher high
higher low because that's too myopic
okay it's a Pursuit
especially in this generation today it's
a pursuit of
Simplicity for the sake of Simplicity
alone not for the sake of getting to the
truth or the heart of the matter and
that's what makes me a stumbling block
for many of you that are younger because
you want right now instant gratification
you want instant reward for the minial
time that you
invest when it's surprising to learn
that you're going to take a lot more
time than you first thought it was going
to take to learn how to do this
exceptionally
well but for an additional view on how I
built this understanding in price action
it
originally came from his idea of Market
structure but if you study what I'm
going to show you in this video lecture
here my paid group has never seen this
before and you're seeing it for the
first time okay so when you hear people
talk about Market structure
and they're looking for a higher high
higher high higher high and having
successive lower lows behind them and
then you have a
failed higher high and then it breaks
the swing low right before that failed
higher high they look at that as a
change in Trend uh not all the time many
times that's a good buying opportunity
for me because really that's just coming
back down to a deep discount and I'm
going to buy
those and continue
higher so it's a little tricky if you
don't understand the higher time frame
which is what these red levels are
that's higher time frame the erarchy in
parent
to child price swings okay so that way
the
subordination that the smaller time
frame price swings adhere to from the
higher time frame is directly linked to
the order flow on those higher time
frame charts so in other words what am I
saying
the daily chart has the bulk of the
volume that's coming into that
Marketplace there isn't a lot of volume
coming in on a one minute chart that's
not to change the importance or reduce
the importance rather of an of a one
minute chart within the proper context
and Market structure that's underway so
you can use a one minute chart to
navigate
because as a smaller retail Trader which
is who we all
are but we don't trade with retail logic
there's a there's a separation from what
we're trying to do in price versus the
collective out there that learns from
books and things like that now that may
sound like an Octor because I'm pointing
to a book right here on the screen but
the ideas that he teaches early in this
book about Market structure I think is
the
whole well the only I found useful in
that book I have a lot of respect for
this man but out of that entire book his
discussions about Market structure
that's the only thing I find that is
useful from that book so if you're
reading anything else in that book you
know great if you like it but my only
addition to this for more research for
more of a foundational idea where I got
this from um you're going to hear people
say um he teaches Larry Williams Market
structure no I
don't the ideas that came early on in my
learning came from this man's
interpretation of Market structure but I
want to take you into the chart now and
show you what he's not teaching in that
book what he hasn't taught in any of his
works and it gets a little bit closer to
the heart of the matter and you'll find
it it's it's really
interesting so if we have a imbalance
that's rebalanced and we have an
intermediate term High shouldn't an
intermediate term High have a lower
short-term High to the right of it and a
lower short-term High to the left of
it yes Mr Williams says so in his book
also would I discovered in my own study
no one taught this to me okay I kind of
pioneered this idea see a lot of these
Instagram guys after saying they p
neared something in the last two years
of
trading the idea of a intermediate term
High not being
higher than the short-term High to the
left of it or the short-term High to the
right of it in other words it's going
lower this an ideal scenario should be
this high should be above both
short-term
Highs but it's
not it's
not so what what is it doing it's only
rebalancing
this
and where is it likely to go well if
you're thinking in terms of a pennant or
triangle pattern it's indicating to me
soon as this candle starts to go up like
this this candle and this candle why not
this candle too well this candle only
has this low here this candle is an up
close but this starts the last two up
closed candles right before this move
down this is important because we're
going to look inside this shaded area
and how we can use highly precise ideas
within this order
block I'm anticipating this run up with
these candles forming an order block
where everyone else is
teaching the idea of the last up Clos
candle before the down move that is not
my order block that is not my order
block so you need to stop teaching that
because it's not accurate call it
something else but don't call it order
block this movement here these two green
candles that are going up I'm watching
these as they form live with the
expectation because this imbalance has
been rebalanced here this swing high is
an the intermediate term High I do not I
do not expect this High to be taken out
so I'm already forecasting and
anticipating a failed price swing in
here every time this green candles are
forming I'm looking at that as a bearish
order block so from the beginning at
that candles low I'm looking in time on
Lower time frame charts lower than what
well this is a 1 hour chart so what's
the time frame below
that I dropped to a 50-minute time frame
now before I get any further just know
that the range between this long-term
high and this long-term
low that range is going to be used for
targeting purposes and I'll get into
that in a moment but these up closed
candles from the hourly perspective
that's the range for my hourly order
block inside that range I can be
hunting fair value
gaps light
bulb I don't need to see the market
trade down below the last highest up
closed
candle I don't need that because I
understand what I'm looking for inside
Market structure actual Market structure
not just higher high higher low I'm
looking at the underpinnings of the
marketplace and I'm examining what is it
doing High to high low to low within a
higher time frame
premise remember the premise was we were
going to go up to this upper level level
here rebalance and then eventually trade
lower down below sell side
liquidity in this fractal I'm using this
one here just to illustrate the idea so
in other words up here it's going to
make a short pattern something bearish
to get short on then work towards going
down to that
low now clearly you can see it here does
so nicely but I want to take you into
this price action right here before I
zoom in
look closely what do you see pause the
video I'm not ping at the do
ICT and you can't make me all
right right in here you can see a small
little imbalance this one single candle
like that right there that's the same
thing that was occurring in this move
here on the hourly chart that gets
rebalanced
there here we have a small version of it
that is a fractal that's something that
repeats on a smaller or higher time
frame that's similar in its formation it
won't be identical but it's closely
related to the general
idea if it trades back to this candle
High don't worry I'll zoom in in a
moment that's your entry right there
that's aggressive and I don't have a
problem being aggressive if I know what
I'm looking for but there's also an
imbalance in here and it rebalances that
right there see that now once we
establish the market structure on that
hourly chart I'm not going down into the
lower time frames below it and marking
out all the swing highs and swing lows
either that that's Overkill I just need
to know what I'm looking for on the time
frame I'm trading on the logic is based
on that daily chart that it's going up
into this imbalance to go
lower the hourly chart frames my trade
it gives me what I'm looking for to
start hunting entry
techniques now the 15-minute time frame
that's the Bell weather this is where
it's going to give me the actual get in
get out but I might not like the risk
parameters that's required on this time
frame so I can go down into lower time
frames should price go lower and break
lower I'm looking at that short-term low
here and that INR term low there if we
have a short-term low taken out and an
intermediate term low taken out or
just an intermediate term low taken out
then we can go back to the previous
long-term High long-term low now a
long-term High long-term low is
generally going to be linked to a higher
time frame daily chart that might be
a price range it might be a high to a
short-term low in this case I'm framing
the idea and logic around that fair
value Gap that I outlined in front of
all of you saying it's likely go up
there rebounce and then go lower and
take out that old daily
low there's lots of ways you can frame
your
trade but you have to have
something directly linked to that daily
chart because the daily chart that's
exactly what institutions are working
off of that's exactly what banks are
working off of that's where the money is
that's where your bias is going to be
determined
that's going to be what makes or breaks
your Trend continuation that daily chart
so the majority of your time in study
should be on determining where that
daily chart's going over the next day or
two or a
week but you try not to forecast longer
than a
week not that you can't I'm not
suggesting that anyone can't do that I'm
just saying if as a developing student
you want to keep your perspective
limited to a 5-day time Horizon and
don't be upset if you don't have the
entire weekly range forecasted correctly
that's not important right now you're
growing you're trying to learn how to do
this and it's highly technical no one
gets it overnight it took me six years
so but it pays off if you stick with
it so if we have a break below and any
return
low then we have what a significant
break in Market structure this is
something that's more significant just
simply than going into a chart saying
okay well it took out a short-term low
there it is uh-uh see how much more
detailed this
is what this tells me is then I can
start using this range high and low and
start getting projections
down I can get a measurement of
measuring this High to this low and
start replicating that going
down and it'll give me price targets
they're generic price targets if you
don't want to use that targeting
method this long-term low to interterm
high if price breaks below here as it
does here you can simply take your
Fibonacci anchor it to the highest high
down to the lowest low and this is what
you would get
here why am I using that why am I not
using this here to here because this
returned back up this is where all of
this move starts right there this is
just the beginning of the the framework
this is where the swing begins on the
decline follow what I'm saying I'll say
it
again this high and this low that's your
framework the retracement that fails
that starts the decline begins here at
that intermate term high so if you
anchor your FIB to the interm term High
down to that low which is a long-term
low the projection is -1 1/2 standard
deviation and there's your low how much
lower than this can it go that's one way
of determining it now I know what you're
asking what is your FIB settings ICT
there's my FIB settings okay I don't
toggle everything because I don't need
all the lines but I'm looking at
measurements like this with logic behind
it it's not just me randomly going in
there because I get a lot of qu when I
was on baby Pips I got lots of emails
all the time and people would post in
the form why are you anchoring your FIB
to That Swing high and not in that swing
high and not this swing high this is
what I never taught this is what I'm
showing you today this is Advanced
Market structure this is not something
you're going to find in books Mr
Williams I'm sure doesn't even know it
like this he's rather simplistic in the
way he does things that's the only thing
I've really gleaned from him
he's he's a legend don't get me wrong
but he does things rather simplistic but
but because of my background is computer
programming and computer science and I
have obsessive compulsive disorder I
need to know why things do what they do
and I need to know everything now I
don't know everything but my pursuit of
knowing everything led me to look at
markets like this and internalize how
what the algorithms are doing because
there has to be a rhyme and reason right
like to suggest the idea that these
markets are operating under an algorithm
and they're going up and down based on
and AI artificial intelligence is
controlling this it's not your buying
and selling pressure I've said this many
times before but if that is true and
let's suspend your disbelief if you
don't believe there's an algorithm just
for the sake of this conversation let's
just say for a moment that you do
subscribe to the
idea if there's an algorithm that means
it must follow some form of
logic and how does it
reference how far to go up and how far
to go down it cannot see your
stop it doesn't see Michael stop it
doesn't see Renee stop it doesn't see
Juan stop it doesn't see
Brian
Larry that's outside of
its
capability but it
knows where people will have their stops
based on these ideas
is short-term High short-term low
interterm high interterm low long-term
low long-term
high and where the imbalances are now I
already know right now at this moment
right now your heads are spinning you're
probably sitting here looking at man
this is crazy how did he come up with
this and how the hell am I going to use
it exactly you're going to take time
learning this line upon line precept
upon precept here a little there a
little it takes time to do this okay
but I got requested to teach Market
structure and this is my interpretation
of Market structure because I'm leaning
on algorithmic principles that are in
the marketplace that can't be taught to
you but I'm creating a language so that
way you can see it visually in your
chart and you can measure and reference
certain things not exactly like the gthm
does but very very close to what it's
doing which in my mind doesn't really
step on anybody's toes now does it so if
we're looking at this little shaded area
here I want to zoom in now and get down
to the heart ofest
teaching this is the same 15-minute time
frame and just zoomed in a little bit
more this is an aggressive entry for
going short now that hourly chart was
showing those two candles going up in
the 15minute time frame it's obviously
more cand
so in this up close candle series of 1 2
3 4 five
candles in that range if I
get a fair value gy form with a
breakdown like this notice I don't need
a swing low
broken notice
that on the model I'm teaching you you
have to look for
what the short-term low being broken
that's your Market structure shift then
you see price go up into that imbalance
and then you can go short or vice versa
when you're going
bullish if you understand Market
structure with this perception looking
at it from a higher time frame and
anticipating a breakdown but then
starting to classify each
imbalance and swing high and swing
low inate term highs and lows are formed
at the rebalancing of an imbalance
everything I already said in the video
okay I'm just
reiterating if the intermedi term high
is not higher than two short-term highs
that is telling you that the market is
very weak and the algorithm is tipping
its hand to those people that are
looking at it like
this who would be looking at like
this smart Money traders someone that's
not looking at a chart with harmonic
ideas nothing Elliot wave they don't
even look at support and resistance
that's not a factor that's not a factor
at
all when Bank Traders sit down they're
not looking at support and resistance
they care less about a trend line they
don't care about moving averages
crossing
over none of that
stuff they're looking
at imbalance rebalance and liquidity
that is
it that's it that's all they're doing
now framing that within the context of
Forex they would be utilizing the
fundamental idea of interest rate
differentials which I'll talk a little
bit about not in this lesson but I said
we go into Forex but right now we're
teaching price through this
medium and index Futures but this stuff
works in Forex period okay there's no
reason to question whether if it's just
only going to work in this it works in
all
markets this is your aggressive entry
you don't need a swing low being broken
because you have the idea based on
Market structure suggesting that this is
exceedingly weak if it's exceedingly
weak that means the next short-term High
how do I know it's going to be a
short-term High I don't know because I'm
studying the up closed candles because
that's going to be an order block later
on
now everybody else knows how to look at
these candles after it goes below it and
comes back up and bumps the bottom of
that right there so the bottom of that
rectangle that's the classic ICT bearish
order
block the advanced interpretation of an
order block would be using Market
structure like this which is
unconventional but you start seeing the
imbalances inside the order block when
you're already expecting it to sell off
see this interent term High I already
know that this rebalance here classifies
this in my mind as an interent term high
that means it should not trade above
that
high just like this short-term high and
this short-term High did not trade above
this interent term
High why is this an interent term High
when it didn't even rebalance
anything didn't think I'd get to that
question did you he's reading my
mind here's a long longterm High here's
a swing High over here a swing High over
here see that long-term high right
intermed term High short-term High
short-term high or if you want to use
this one I'm using this one not
classifying this one because this is
energetic it moves lower you could have
easily had a short-term High marker
there but I'm using this one because it
has that run lower to
rebalance the IM term High has a lower
short-term High to the left of it and a
lower short-term High to the right of it
so intermediate term highs there's two
classifications it is a short-term High
that has a lower short-term High to the
left of it and a lower short-term High
to the right of it or and this is the
main one here it trades back up to
rebalance and imbalance that immediately
becomes an interm term
high now the usefulness of that is if
we're bearish and it rebalances like
this the next shortterm high should be
lower than that intermed term
high if it trades higher than that then
your trade ideas probably flawed Don't
force that trade again wait for Market
structure to get back in sync with what
you're expecting something
bearish that's how you keep from blowing
your account or forcing your will in the
marketplace now let's go back into the
order block inside these candles as it's
going up I'm looking at lower time frame
TR and this is a 15-minute time frame we
see it break down it doesn't take any
short-term low out but it's inside these
up Clos candles which is an hourly order
block of two candles
each the imbalance trades up into that's
your aggressive sell your stock could be
right above that
High classic lowrisk High confirmation
short entry is the classic return back
to an order block after a trade down
below it
here's your little
Gap here trade into it there's your
short where's your stop Above This
candle's
High there you
go
now you can go down into the charts
deeper with your 5 4 3 2 and
one narrowing down to a smallest time
frame you can see see that the last two
candles here right for the turn inside
the order block the order block is the
Shaded pink box but these last two
candles here with The
Gap that low is exactly to the quarter
point as that candle's high right there
don't take my word for it go into your
charts and you'll see that is exactly
the perfect delivery to that candle's
low
what's so why am I pointing to that
candle because the order block is one
consecutive series of up closed candles
it's not the last candle before the down
move you can tell where these folks
learned what lessons I taught from and
where they pared from but order block
theory is much more than just simply the
last up close candle before down move or
the last down closed candle before the
up
move that's not it
this is it you have the up closed
candles together here with the imbalance
inside of a larger order block within
the bearish market structure because we
have an inant term High here then this
run up is going to fail to go back Above
This
high now I know some of you are like
this is too much they there's no how am
I going to be able to go into the chart
and be able to do this you're not going
to right
away but you need to go back to your
data and your charts and start breaking
them down and classifying them like this
you have the benefit of
hindsight that's how I began to trust it
because I would go through old data and
start breaking them down and looking for
these things right here that's how I
bridged what I learned about how the
algorithm prices and books price and
then I made a language within price
charts that communicates very closely
what it's
doing this is the language that I
created for all of you to understand
what it is I'm trying to interpret to
you that have never seen this
before the imbalance
here it goes over a little bit that's
okay but inside this range in here more
specifically the order block the hourly
right here that's where your fill would
be or aiming with your limit order and
the heat on the trade would be on this
candle's movement there but your stock
would be above
here but you're aiming for a very large
downside objective so the risk from
entering here at the bottom of the
hourly bearish order block which is
again represented by the bottom of that
rectangle
here you're entering there the Heat or
the draw down in the trade is limited to
just that candle but your stop has to be
here and you're expanding lower for a
Target that's many times over what your
risk
is dropping down to a 4-minute
chart here's that same order block from
the 5 minute perspective it's a little
skewed now because we're looking at four
minutes each candle's four minutes in
duration Market trades up into that hits
it perfectly not that it's link anything
on the 4-minute chart but it's lengthed
again to that 5minute
chart hits it right there beautifully
trades lower comes right back up trades
into the top end that fair value gap on
the higher time frame before we started
dropping
down we have a little bit of movement
above it and that's okay because this
Market is very volatile right now you
can't demand the markets to always
deliver with this level of precision
sometimes you get this little coloring
outside the lines and that's okay that's
a matter of experience and time studying
it and doing it you anticipate a certain
measure
of
imperfection and still submitting
yourself to the idea that just because
it went above that level doesn't mean it
broke it and it's going to keep going
higher it's likely to do that and if it
does don't freak
out then the market trades lower and
reaches where there's targets now what I
want you to think about is when you see
these patterns for entry now ton I
taught you how to look at Market
structure from an advanced
perspective I already know some of you
are going to be very confused by this
lesson and I understand your confusion
but that confusion is reduced by you
going in and looking at Price data and
start studying it and looking at
it the idea is
this when you see an imbalance get
rebalanced the high
formed as it
rebalances that high should not be
violated by Price going higher than that
if you're
bearish if you blend that with
institutional order flow what is
institutional order flow when you're
bearish all of your up closed candles
should keep
price from going higher than them what
does that
mean we have an imbalance here the
market trades up into the bullish
candles that were on the five minute
chart we're on a 4minute chart that's
that red level here let me go back up to
say you
know that's this one here this is a down
close candle right there these are the
last two up close candles before the
displacement here and then balance
Market trades back up into that right
there there's your bearish order Block
it's aggressive but if you know what
you're looking for that's very very fun
to do that on the 4-minute chart there's
that same return back to that 5-minute
beish order block Watch What Happens
Market breaks lower so we have up close
candle and up closed candles the market
trades higher yes but does it overtake
this up Clos candle no it just trades
back up into it a little bit but doesn't
go above
it wow that's important because if it
doesn't overtake these up closed candles
here or here it doesn't even need to get
to these because it hasn't even overcome
this one so it acts as real
resistance that's institutional
orderflow your Market when it breaks
again from the consolidation in here all
of these up closed candles never get
reached into again here at all but
notice what we got over here we have up
closed candles the market leaves it then
it comes right back up does it overtake
these up Clos candles no so it's going
to remain
heavy so in
short I've taught you tonight to look at
the markets from a market structure
perspective by breaking down the price
swings labeling them specifically in
inbalance that's
rebalanced that intermediate term high
or
low should not be violated that's a key
high or a key
low that sets the stage for a market
move at that should unfold and deliver
to a higher time frame objective in this
case as we outlined in the beginning I
showed you last week in the week before
that that we were looking for weakness
in NASDAQ to take out its daily
low if you combine that logic with
Market structure and the imbalance
rebalance becomes intermediate term
highs and lows those key highs and lows
with them not being violated if they are
violated that means your idea is wrong
and you cancel the idea and you don't
try to go in and force it again and
overtrade and blow your
account while the market is moving in
your favor you're going to continue to
trust that move and hold on to your
trade because if you're bearish up Clos
candles should keep price below it or
them if it's multiple up closed
candles they're speed bumps they may
come back up and touch them and act as a
what bearish order block but you do not
want to see them traded above if you're
bearish and vice versa if you're bullish
when price is moving higher generally
the candles will be
predominantly Green in my case because
I'm looking at Green candles when it's
going higher whatever your candle color
is on your
platform predominantly there's going to
be more up closed candles when it's
bullish but down closed candles should
support price if it trades back down to
them them it's going to act as a support
structure for an order
block so I've given you two mean
components to Market structure and
institutional order flow how to know
when the move is still good and not be
afraid and how do you know when the move
is likely to be dynamic and how do you
know when the idea is probably flawed
and your interpretation or your analysis
is wrong if that intermediate term high
or low is broken
after your trade idea becomes
possible if that in term high is broken
and you're bearish then you got to move
through the sidelines and don't go in
again wait for more setups in the future
it may be in the same trading session or
it may be in the same trading day or it
may require you to trade in the
following week you just can't force it I
taught you institutional order flow
which is
again I've already mentioned this in the
previous lessons where we we're bullish
and we're expecting a price swing higher
generally there is not a lot of down
Clos candles in that price swing higher
but those down closed candles should
support price should it trade back down
into them and not see them
overlapped in other words going down
below it if it does it's only
permissible if there's a short-term low
in close proximity to it and it's then
lik like just go down and take out some
sell stops if it's bullish and then
reaccumulate and go higher if there is
no swing
low there would be no swing low with
cell side below it so there's nothing to
concern yourself with just look for down
Clos candles to support price
higher so in other words price swings
that are bullish down closed candles are
your support in price swings that are
bearish up Clos candles are your
resistance
now if you blend these ideas together
you get a perspective on price that
cannot be gleaned from other teachers
Educators Traders authors gurus or
whatever but these are my responses to
folks that ask me how do I know what
swing high and what swing low to use as
you can see it's not a question that I
can go in and say in one simple
statement this is what I'm doing it
takes
takes deeper thought it takes study and
it has to require supportive lessons
that there's still going to be needed
for the majority of you that are sitting
here listening to me and you're saying
okay I can see what you're saying I can
see it but there's no way I would have
came to that conclusion on my own nobody
would expect you to you're too new you
haven't been doing it enough and frankly
I've never taught this before this is
what I've kept close to my V but
I want to give and I want to share but
you're not going to understand this in
one lesson but because I am trading and
I'm sharing and I'm teaching I will show
you more examples that way you can see
the logic behind it but I want you to go
back to your charts and look at every
time the market rebalances classify that
as an interterm high or interent term
low if it's you know with a rebound
that's been moving higher than went down
balance
that and then watch how
prices stay away from violating it and
if you can frame a context around a
price swing that's linked to a higher
time frame chart like the
daily then you have a wonderful model
that has higher time frame order flow
behind it that is Paramount for your
trade to work if you can't see it
working or following suit to what the
daily chart's likely to do or in
layman's terms if you're trading against
what that daily time frame or daily
chart is likely to be doing you are
absolutely asking for
failure you're asking for it you're
begging for it that's not to say that
you can't go long when the daily chart's
going
lower but why would you want
to why would you want to swim against
the
tide why would you want to be the
salmon the salmon that fights its way up
against the current just to get to the
top of the
river spawns and then dies you got there
but failed in the
end you want to be working with the tide
you want to be moving with the EB and
flow of these markets on a high time
frame because that daily chart if you
understand that daily chart let's go
back up to it
if you're doing all of your
analysis and linking your trade ideas
based on the logic behind this time
frame
here you're going to avoid a lot of
losing trades now you're going to lose
you're going to have losing trades I
have losing
trades but you're going to avoid the
silly mistakes that the majority of
retail Traders
make you're not going to to
see why on a 15-minute time frame or a
5-minute chart why it's not turning
around and reversing intraday when it
feels like it might be doing so because
you'll have these small little you know
quick Dynamic little Pops in the
direction it's counter with the daily
chart
suggesting those are just little traps
they're little moves that get people
caught up in oh it's going to go reverse
let me get and Chase that and then it
just creates another selling opportunity
when the daily chart is like to continue
going lower so you have to submit
yourself to what this daily chart is
doing what's it reaching for and when it
reaches
it
stop get a lay of the land again check
your barings which is what I'm going to
close this video with
now we were up
here we rebalanced I said all of this
here is just normal for us to anticipate
a run down below here this is is this
rebalancing for another leg lower to go
down
here so we have had that in price it's
delivered but now we're back above that
low so what does that mean for us well
on the daily chart it's been bearish but
we're back
Above This Old low that is in my
mind do nothing we're neutral right now
why why would you be neutral can you
still be bearish yes
can you be bullish if you want to go
against the trend of the daily time
frame well it just brings with it a
greater measure of risk now there's
going to be
times where you can go back in the
charts and say but yeah look at this
time anybody can do that I'm looking at
the hard right Edge right now and my
paid mentorship group is hearing this
video Just Like You
Are I Am neutral right now I am not
taking any
trades there's a lot of things going on
globally there's a lot of confusion
right now money is Running Scared in the
marketplace and I don't see where we're
going next with a great deal of
certainty so what did I just say to you
publicly I don't
know what are you say ICT just said he
don't know something he doesn't know
what the Market's going to do right
right now I don't know so if I don't
know and if I can't classify it based on
the things I'm looking for in
price yes it could possibly go a little
bit higher this could be the low it
could be some kind of reversal they
could you stop doing what you're doing
over there in Europe and in Ukraine and
everything becomes happy and nothing
happens bad again for a couple months
and the markets go
higher I don't see that right
now I don't know if it's is going to
continue going
lower where it's at right
now
neutral because I can't justify it
one-sidedness okay this is how I teach
my my pay group the things I teach
them if you can't go into your charts
and line up an idea that's bullish and
have no way to frame it on a bearish
stance in other
words if you can very easily communicate
it in your analysis that it's likely to
go higher but it's a real hard stretch
to sell it for a bearish idea that's
high
probability if you can frame it bearish
but have a hard time defining it in a
bullish perspective that's high
probability now how many trades have you
taken in your time as a Trader
where it could go either way but what
the hell I got time I'm in front of the
charts let me just get here see what
happens and you enter a market and then
you
lose what happens after that you have a
lot of regret and you know what you're
thinking I don't even know why I did
that that was dumb why' I get into the
marketplace everyone's done that
everyone has done that and I have blown
accounts doing that 1990s I was Reckless
did whatever I wanted to do and none of
it was really hinged on Sound Logic it
was me discovering risk because I didn't
respect it when I first went into it but
I found out real
hard that it hurts and you don't want to
go through that
so this brings this lesson to conclusion
tonight and I am absolutely certain that
you have a Litany of questions and
concerns and
confusions all of those things get
answered over time spending time with me
looking at examples and you'll see it
over time it cannot be understood in one
lesson it absolutely cannot happen and I
know some of you young guys are going to
want to post in the comment section I
understand exactly what you said I've
seen this 15 times before don't I I
don't look at those messages and think
to myself wow and I'm not going to let
that message be posted to the video
comment section I'm not looking
for you know messages that fluff me up
I'm just looking for ones that I like
okay
and if it's something that I think that
would be been official to the community
I'll use it but if it's something I just
thought it
was funny or useful that's the one I
like out of all the comments it doesn't
mean that all the comments that were not
selected were useless or uh less
important because some of them are
questions I am using your questions in
the way I'm teaching so that way I'm
covering a lot of the bases that you
guys are saying I'm stuck with
understanding this but just know that
there's a lot of the questions that
you're asking that will be answered in
the normal progression through the
lessons I have planned for you it may
not feel like it it may feel like you're
being ignored or that I don't care about
your question or I'm somehow avoiding it
because I don't have an answer I have
answers okay I have answers to the
questions you have not had aise in your
thoughts yet but you just got to relax
and go through the natural progression
of it this is very technical stuff folks
very very
technical you don't need to be this
technical but I was asked to teach
Market structure and there's a lot of
folks out there especially on YouTube
that pretend to know about Market
structure but they have no real idea
what they're doing the only thing
they're explaining is what's already
happened in the price charts I'm showing
you something in Greater detail what I
outline to every one of you in this
YouTube channel everyone in this YouTube
channel watched me outline this market
right here and it
moved
14,500
points based on that logic that's a lot
that's a very significant price move and
it behaved exactly how I'm teaching it
to you that should
be reassuring number one but also it
should be intriguing
because if I'm able to sit down with you
and this was not a CH how many times
have I put out suggest sus either in the
comment section of my community tab or
in video how many times have I said
something and it didn't come to
pass they're not cherry-picked I'm
showing you things that are based on the
logic that I'm teaching you okay so it
removes the necessity for Blind Faith
okay don't believe me because I'm ICT
believe what I'm teaching you and that
you're seeing in the charts yourself
when you're back testing and watching it
it
live that's where the proof is
discovered cuz I can do this every
single day and there still going to be
people that's going to doubt and the
folks that are convinced already they
don't need any more Assurance they just
want to learn and that's what I'm doing
I'm teaching you I'm teaching you
exactly what's going on on that hard
right edge of that chart and right now
at this moment I'm teaching you a
greater lesson when not to do something
you may have an account
open you may have time to be in front of
your charts you may have an
idea some kind of inkling that you think
the Market's going to do this or that
I'm telling you personally I am not
touching this at all I'm not trading
Forex I'm not trading Futures I'm not
trading crypto I've never traded crypto
and I'm not touching stocks I'm not
touching bonds I'm not trading anything
right now I'm going to let the rest of
February transpire without me
engaging it's done exactly what I
outlined for all of you it was a nice
price move it was logical it was precise
it delivered exactly as I outlined
beforehand and tonight I taught you the
internals behind that in a very
structured detailed
way your infancy as a student under me
is going to be an impediment to you
understanding everything and even my
paid mentorship group are probably
scratching their heads tonight too
because there's gaps in their
understanding because I just literally
introduced this for the first time they
have they don't have this in any of the
lessons they had none of them no one has
seen me teach this it's the first time
I'm
unveiling what it is when I look at
Market structure what is it I'm doing
how am I framing things I'm using a top
down approach from the daily down to the
lower time
frames but the time frame I'm framing
the setup on which was the hourly chart
using higher time frame logic and the
order flow in other words I'm bearish
because that daily chart suggest that
it's going to go down below here when it
was up here this went down too quick and
why do the market even creating a fair
value got why does the market go up here
because this Market dropped one-sided
right
here it just went down there wasn't a
lot of give and take back and forth It's
one candle that went down like
that because it's one candle it's one
day one
interval it's going to have the
likelihood not it must always not that
it's going to do it immediately but the
expectation is it's likely to go back
back up into this area here with an up
candle balancing out the movement lower
it's going to go back up to offer buyers
an opportunity to buy at those prices it
matters not if those buyers are correct
in their assumptions about this
Marketplace the algorithm is allowing
efficiency for Price
delivery and in layman's terms it means
it went down to too quick it wasn't
offering enough time for anyone that
wants to buy it so it goes back up once
it does that it
rebalances right there spends a little
bit of time and then displacement again
and then right to where we outlining
it the question I want to leave you with
is
this why does it respect the levels I'm
teaching here in the logic from
imbalance to liquidity
if everything is based on trend lines
moving averages harmonic patterns
Fibonacci this Elliot wave
that if those things were real and they
had factors that really made price go
higher or
lower answer this for me this is the
riddle you need to figure out
okay how does the market
know which discipline it's going to f
follow any given day is it going to
follow harmonic animal patterns or is it
going to follow Elliot wave or is it
going to use supply and
demand or is it going to use volume
profile is going to use white
cof is it going to use the patterns
that's found on range
bars is it going to use what's in
ichimoku you getting the point
it all of those disciplines do not
agree all of them they're at odds with
one
another one discipline's going to say
wait for this one discipline's going to
say wait for that so how is it that the
market determines which discipline it's
going to use for that given time period
or that
day that's
nonsense that's you being
religious any of you that subscribed to
those ideas and I
did you are under a faith-based
premise that what you're
learning should
work when it's not based on any of those
things the Market's only
book and print these
candles based on two principles
liquidity going above old highs for buy
stops going below old lows for sell
stops
or rebalancing or creating imbalance so
it's imbalance rebalance run for
liquidity that's it it does not do
anything else the algorithm is not
looking at harmonic patterns it's not
thinking well you know I haven't used a
bat pattern in a while so let's drive
them
batty it's not thinking I want to scare
the living hell out of them and create a
shark
pattern it's silly it is silly and I
know some of you trade like this okay
and I'm not trying to make fun of you
I'm just asking you to be highly
critical about a perception of what it
is that we as Traders do and how much a
fallacy it
is when you strip all that stuff
away and it sounds like I'm biased
because this is what I'm teaching you
but noce what I'm doing I gave up
millions of dollars a
year to come out here and teach for
free I could still be making millions
there's many of you are still asking can
I just join on your page no you can't
join be happy I'm teaching I'm teaching
mentorship right here come
on what's in it for
me I'm already rich I already know how
to
trade a lot of people like what I do
I don't need to be doing this I just
enjoy it but why is the market doing
what I teach so precisely so
consistently maybe it's because this is
the
market maybe it's
because this is the
algorithm I'll leave that with you to
decide enjoy your weekend be safe and
I'll talk to base with you on Tuesday